Let's go do Details next.
So we're going to rename this Details.tsx.
So before that,
we have this thing here called, well,
we have these animals that we use.
Let's go and
make a new file called API response type.
So we're gonna actually
make a file just of types.
So we're gonna make a new file here,
and we're gonna call it,
inside of Source, and
call it APIResponseTypes.ts.
We're not gonna have any React in it so
you could call it ts or tsx.
I went with ts.
There's not really good rhyme or reason,
you can call it always tsx.
You can call it always ts
if there's no React in it.
That's kind of up to you.
Export type Animal.
So we're gonna get into what is a type and
what is an interface which is
always a fun discussion to have.
But let's just go ahead and do this one.
Something that is of type animal
is either gonna be a dog or
a cat, Or a bird,
Or a reptile or a rabbit.
Now why did we do this?
Because now we can say anywhere is like
hey, we have this const friend and
they're of type animal, and
I wanna say it's a peacock, right?
It's gonna say, hey, you can't actually
do that, that's not assignable.
So it's actually going to literally
check is this a dog, cat, bird,
reptile or rabbit.
So it's literally checking like,
I've been told that these are the only
types of animals that I can handle.
It will prevent you from
doing it any other way.
Okay, and we're exporting this because now
we can import this and other files and
say, hey, this thing's an animal,
make sure it's always one of these types.
So this is even more
specific than a string type.
I could have just said animals
are always strings, but
we know it's actually
more specific than that.
Okay, now we're gonna export an interface.
And this is always the most
confusing part for people.
When do I use type?
When do I use interface?
And what's the difference?
I'll be honest, it's confused me for
a long time and
I still sometimes have to look it up.
So, I'm just gonna give you
the just huge rule of thumb.
When you can use an interface,
use an interface.
If it's possible to use an interface,
always use interface because it's more
flexible, it's easier to deal with.
This is a time when we have
to actually use a type.
Now, it says type here, but
really what it is is a type alias.
So that alias term is actually
a little bit important here.
Because really what animal is, is we're
just kind of restricting down a string.
And that's really what
this type animal is,
that's why it makes kind
of a type alias here.
Whereas pet this is gonna be like an
interface that other things can implement.
But suffice to say it's
just an object shape.
And you can use types,
aliases this way as well.
So they have some overlap
of when you can use each.
And that's why I'm telling you the advice
that I get from the TypeScript team is
whenever you can use
interface use interface.
If you have some specific
use case like this one here,
we can only use a type alias,
then do that.
All right, so a pet that comes back from
our API has an id which is a number.
It has a name, which is a string.
It has an animal which is a what,
it's an animal.
It has a description, which is a string.
We have a breed, which is a string.
We have an images,
which is a string array.
We have a city which is a string, and
we have a state which is a string.
And now we have a fully typed pet so
that we can say, okay, this object here,
it's a pet.
This is what it has, this is what it
doesn't have, so on and so forth.
And then we can have a pet
respond like a pet API response.
Anytime that we can do a fetch
from that API response,
we're gonna have to cast
it as a pet API response.
So export interface, PetAPIResponse and
it's gonna have a number of
results, which is a number.
It has a start index, which is a number,
it has an end index
which is another number.
It has a hasNext which is a Boolean.
And it has a pets array, which is what?
It's an array of pet objects.
And now we have some very useful flexible
things cuz we have these pet responses in
multiple parts of our apps.
And now we just import these types that we
can use other parts of our application.
All right, so in the details,
let's rename it details.tsx.
We did that.
From react-router-dom,
we're gonna grab the RouteComponentProps.
And then down here at the bottom,
we're gonna import PetAPIResponse and
Animal from ./APIResponseTypes, okay?
So now we've imported these types,
we can use them here.
First thing we have class
Details extends Component.
And now we're gonna tell it what
the shape of this component is.
So the first thing is
it's a RouteComponent.
So we can say this is
a RouteComponentProps.
That's the kind of props
it's gonna expect.
And of those, so we're gonna kinda
do two layers of generics here,
it's going to expect an id string.
So what is this saying?
This is a RouteComponent that
we got from react-router-dom.
And that in and of itself can
accept those Id like here, an app.
This here,
we have to identify to TypeScript.
This is what it is expecting,
from react-router-dom to be passed
in as a parameter from that URL.
Okay, so going back to details.
That's how we get that.
Now something we have to do here that we
were being kinda lazy about here is we
were just loading json pets in here,
but it's gonna say, hey,
I don't really know, or
this is not gonna work for your state.
So we kinda have to be more explicit and
give it more defaults of
what goes into state here.
So we have to go identify,
here's everything that's gonna
come back from the PetAPI.
So we have to say animal
is gonna be empty string.
But it's not just an empty string,
it's what?
It's an animal.
So we have to say, actually,
this is really an animal,
it's not just a string, okay?
Breed is gonna be an empty string.
City is gonna to be an empty string.
State is gonna be an empty string.
Description, Is gonna be an empty string.
Name is gonna be an empty string.
And then images is gonna be an array,
right?
But we have to tell it what
kind of array is it gonna be.
Well, that's easy to do, you just say
it's gonna be an array of strings.
Okay, so we have to be a bit more explicit
about what the state shape is gonna
be, Okay?
Is this upset about async?
No, it's fine.
So we have to say, what is coming back
from this API, it doesn't really know.
So what we're gonna do this,
json is going to tell it.
This, you can expect as a PetAPIResponse.
So now this json is gonna know like
this is called casting, right?
And it doesn't know what API you're
calling when, it's not that intelligent
to really figure out, well, it's calling
this and this has this shape, right?
You have to tell it.
This is gonna come back as that.
And now it knows that this
json is a PetAPIResponse.
There's probably other ways
to cleverly type this.
And some people don't like using
this as this casting of types but
I find it's just really simple
because now I know this json for
sure is definitely gonna
be a PetAPIResponse.
Okay, this is upset that it's a, Location
is actually a location type and we're kind
of hacking around the browser API's here.
The correct way of doing this
is actually putting href here.
And that's actually the technically
spect way that's correct to do it.
There's just like a browser.
All browsers kind of implement the unspect
behavior that if you reassign location,
it respects that as well.
This is gonna make you learn to spect
a lot better, for good or for worse.
Okay, so that's all good.
Everything's happy here.
Everything's happy down here.
Most of the stuff that can pick up pretty
easily with type inference but there's
some places you just kind of just have
to massage and help it out a little bit.
Okay, ErrorBoundary here.
This you have to tell that Detail.
Let's actually make this
a little bit easier.
We're just gonna break this
into another component and
say const DetailsErrorBoundary
is a function component.
So I don't think I imported the top, but
I'm just gonna have VS code auto import
it for me and
then I'll show you how to do that.
So this is a function component, and
it's equal to a function
called details error boundary.
You put the name there twice just so
it's easier to debug.
Cuz that'll show up in your stack traces.
And then we'll just move this in here.
And then export default
DetailsErrorBoundary like that, Okay.
Now I just kind of as a lazy rule, I'll
pass down the props from just like this,
but now what TypeScript is
gonna demand to know is, hey,
I don't know what those props are and
I'm kind of uncomfortable with it.
So for me,
it's just easier just delete the props.
Cuz right now we're not
expecting any props,
there's no reason that
we have to have that.
That's just something that I do.
Now details should be nice and
happy with everything in it.
Okay, we've now gone through TypeScript2,
that's the next checkpoint
that we have there in our repo and
we're gonna go do ErrorBoundary next.